2 

wore its most sombre garb — that dark
covering which may well cause our foreign
neighbours to look upon us with such 
unfeigned commiseration, no longer wondering
at our dull and apathetic natures — the gas
lamps scarcely seeming to lend any 
assistance in irradiating the thick 
orange-coloured darkness of the atmosphere, that
a cab was suddenly st0pped as it turned
into an obscure street, and without waiting
for the assistance of the driver, an arm was
thrust out of the window, the door of the
vehicle burst open, and a man springing out,
closely enveloped in a great coat, his face
buried in the thick folds of the shawl
about his neck, helped or rather dragged
forth, his companion, also covered with a
large cloak, and whose countenance was
concealed by an impenetrable veil, and
then ordered the cabman to wait there until
the ladies returned. This done, he walked

3

on without offering any further notice, the
lady following, as also an elderly woman,
who had been one of the occupants of the
cab. 

Along dirty streets, they traversed with
difficulty, keeping up with the rapid, impatient 
steps of their conductor, until they
reached the gate of an old tumble-down
church, in an obscure precinct, into which
the man at once stalked. The clergyman
and clerk were waiting in readiness to 
receive the party, and the gentleman, for
such, notwithstanding his disguise, he 
unmistakably appeared, walked hurriedly to
the Communion-table, seemingly little 
heeding whether his bride elect was doing the
same; but at length, impatiently turning
round, and perceiving that she stood 
motionless in the doorway, he strode hastily:
towards her, and said, in anything but a
conciliatory tone of voice,

4 

“For heaven’s, sake come on! let it be
done, and that quickly."

The lady thus urged obeyed, although
those who looked on might have perceived
that she trembled so violently that her
limbs had scarcely power to sustain her
faltering steps.

The person who accompanied her, and
she was evidently intended to play the part
of witness, now took her place by the side
of the bride, the clerk having been deputed
to give her away.

What a bridal it was! In that wretched,
worm-eaten church, the deep orange-tinted
fog rendering the whole scene so obscure
that the clergyman must indeed have known
the service well by rote, or he could not
have distinguished a word in the Prayer-
book he held in his hand — scarcely the
countenances of those standing before him.

The ceremony, performed in a most

5

slovenly manner, and contracted to its
shortest limits, was soon ended, and the
couple pronounced man and wife.

“There is something more to be done,
I suppose,” exclaimed the bridegroom, in
an impatient tone of voice, taking no notice
of his newly-made wife, whose emotion was
beginning to be so apparent, that the
woman who accompanied her stepped 
forward to offer her assistance.

The gentleman was informed that he must
sign his name in the register, and into the
vestry he stalked, leaving the lady to follow.

Seeing that she hesitated, the clergyman
accosted her, and she was about to be
ushered into the dark, small closet bearing
the name of vestry, when she encountered
the bridegroom hurriedly issuing from it,
he having done his part even in that short
moment.

The lady murmured a name quite in-

6

audible from agitation, as she eagerly
caught hold of his arm to arrest his ﬂight.

“You must not leave me thus,” she 
imploringly said. “ Are we indeed thus to
part, and for ever?”

“Did you not consent that it should be
so, Linda ?” he harshly replied; “you knew
how it was to be, and having fulﬁlled your
promise, we do now part, and as far as I can
see, will never meet again.”

And with cruel force he extricated her
hands from the light grasp with which she
had endeavoured to detain him, and after
having thrust money to defray the necessary
fees into the hands of the clergyman who
had oﬂiciated at these ill-omened nuptials, he
hurriedly left the church, apparently little
heeding the shriek of agony which burst
from the lips of her to whom he had just
pledged himself that death should only part
them.

7

The poor girl, for such she appeared,
when the veil was removed in order that
water might be sprinkled on her death-like
face, was kindly ministered to by the 
person who had accompanied her.

She was made to swallow a little wine
which was kept in the vestry for 
sacramental purposes, and by degrees revived
sufﬁciently to sign her name and be 
assisted into the cab which was still awaiting
them. 

Not a word passed from the white lips of
the bride during the long, miserable drive;
she sat motionless, her hands clasped, her
eyes dilated, ﬁxed on vacancy, the very image
of dark despair. Such a bride! this wretched-
looking young creature, with masses of dark
brown hair hanging in confusion about
her face, her dress neglected, no sign or
trace of aught but misery; and the dense,
cold, humid atmosphere penetrating through

8

the badly closed windows, pressing with its
freezing inﬂuence upon the already over-
charged feelings. 

At length the cab stopped at a small
house in one of the insigniﬁcant streets
leading out of Bloomsbury Square.

“For goodness’ sake! make haste and get
a pan of coals to warm the young lady’s
bed, Sarah,” was the order given as they
entered the door. 

“And now, my dear, we must put you
to bed, you are chilled to death,” was the
proposition made by the good woman to
whose house they had just returned.

The girl shook her head, and then 
attempted to rise from the chair on which
she had thrown herself on ﬁrst entering
the little parlour, but the trembling limbs
refused to perfOrm their oﬁce, and she
sank back, for the ﬁrst time that morning
tears coming to her relief; but tempo-










